multi_button (#1230)
OttoWinter/esphomedocs: components/binary_sensor/multi_button.rst

GPIO Multi Button
==================

> .. seo::
>     :description: Instructions for setting up a button connected to a GPIO with support for multiple presses and press&hold (or a combination).
>     :image: pin.png
> 
> The multi_button component monitors a push-button connected to a GPIO and reports on simple button (long-)press(es) (sequences) with a simple code.
> It adds the convenience of easier automation by detecting multiple presses, press&hold and even a combination of the two.
> The detection (inc. debouncing) happens all inside esphome and the result is only published when a "press-sequence" is finished and ready for
> home assistand to take action upon.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. seo::
    :description: Instructions for setting up a button connected to a GPIO with support for multiple presses and press&hold (or a combination).
    :image: pin.png

The multi_button component monitors a push-button connected to a GPIO and reports on button (long-)press(es) (sequences) with relatively simple code.
It adds the convenience of easier automation by detecting multiple presses, press & hold, and even a combination of the two.
The detection (including debouncing) happens all inside ESPHome and the result is only published when a "press-sequence" is finished and ready for
Home Assistant to take action upon.

```

high (because of the pull-up) and becomes low if the button is pressed, hence the inversion of the pin's logical level.

Configuration variables:
------------------------

- **pin** (**Required**, :ref:`Pin Schema <config-pin_schema>`): The pin to periodically check.
- **name** (**Required**, string): The name of the binary sensor.
- **debounce** (*Optional*, integer): The time in [ms] a button state needs to be stable to be recognized and not ignored as bouncing
- **timeout** (*Optional*, integer): The timeout in [ms] before an event is recognized and published. A double press must have a smaller pause than this between two presses
- **threshold** (*Optional*, integer): The threshold in [ms] where a normal press becomes a press&hold
- **frequency** (*Optional*, float): The rate in [Hz] (times per second) at which updates are being published during a press&hold
- **id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID used for code generation.
- All other options from :ref:`Sensor <config-sensor>` (not actually useful).

How it works
---------------------------

> The component will register as a normal Sensor in Home Assistant (even though it is more like a binary sensor hardware wise..).

Reviewer: From a Home Assistant perspective, this is absolutely not a situation that we want.
Sensors are not meant for this, instead, Home Assistant events should be used.

- If the button is pressed shortly once, the sensor state becomes 1 and then 0 again.
- If the button is pressed shortly twice, the sensor state becomes 2 and then 0 again.
- If the button is pressed shortly x times, the sensor state becomes x and then 0 again.
- If the button is pressed and held, the sensor state becomes 10001, 10002, 10003 and so on until the button is released, which resets it to 0 again.
- If the button is pressed shortly once and then immediately pressed and held, the sensor state becomes 20001, 20002, 20003 and so on until the button is released, which resets it to 0 again.
- If the button is pressed shortly x times and then immediately pressed and held, the sensor state becomes 10000x+1, 10000x+2, 10000x+3 and so on until the button is released, which resets it to 0 again.

> As an example you could add an automation in Home Assistant to trigger play/pause if the sensor's state changes to 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an example, you could add an automation in Home Assistant to trigger play/pause if the sensor's state changes to 1.
```
